# The Study Screen

If you have not used Anki on a computer before, please have a look at
the first [intro
video](https://docs.ankiweb.net/#/getting-started?id=videos) before
reading on, as it explains the basic review process.

When you tap on a deck in the deck list, the study screen will load, and
if any cards are waiting to be studied, a card’s question will be shown
to you.

If you wish to change to a different deck, you can do so by tapping the
top left button. The next three buttons allow you to add cards, edit the
current card, and search/browse all cards.

The gear/cog in the bottom right will open up the [tools
screen](study-tools.md).

On the bottom of the screen you’ll see three numbers. From the left,
these correspond to new cards, learning cards, and cards to review.
These are explained in more detail in the intro videos for the desktop
program, so please [check them
out](https://docs.ankiweb.net/#/getting-started?id=videos) if you
haven’t already.

When you’ve looked at a card’s question and remembered the answer, or
decided you don’t know it, tap anywhere in the card area in order to
show the answer. When you do, the bottom area will change to display 2-4
answer buttons, depending on how you’ve answered the card previously.
The buttons will display the time a card will next be shown, so 10m
means "10 minutes" and "5d" means "5 days". You can tap directly on
these buttons to choose a particular answer.

To make reviewing faster, you can also tap on the card in order to
answer it. For more information on the available taps and how to
customize them, please see the [taps](preferences.md#taps) section.

If you are studying content for which it is useful to sketch something
before showing the answer on the card (e.g., characters in a foreign
language), AnkiMobile provides a feature called the 'scratchpad' (the
analogous feature is called the 'whiteboard' in AnkiDroid). You can
enable the scratchpad by tapping on the tools button, then "Scratchpad".

When you’ve finished the cards that are due to be studied today, you’ll
be shown a congratulations message. If you have other decks, you can tap
the top left button to return to the decks list and select a different
one.

You can tap the home button to close Anki and save your progress at any
time, whether you have completed the day’s reviews or not.

If you have a bluetooth keyboard, you can use the keyboard to review.
Space will show the answer or answer Good, and 1-4 will choose the
answer buttons. You can also press 'r' to repeat the audio on the
current card.
