# Study Tools

The tools screen will open when you tap on the gear/cog icon in the
study screen.

On the top right, there are buttons that will adjust the text size on
your cards.

The "Frequent Actions" section contains some commonly used actions. You
can rearrange the actions there or remove actions by holding your finger
on a button for a second or so.

Below the "Frequent Actions" section is a list of all available actions
in AnkiMobile. You can add these actions to the "Frequent Actions"
section by long-pressing on them.

## Actions

The following actions can be run from the tools screen, or by assigning
them to a tap, swipe, or the top bar in the preferences.

**Add**  
Opens a new window to add cards to the deck.

**Answer "Again"**  
When the answer screen is shown, choose the red button, indicating you
wish to review the card again soon. This is useful when you forgot a
card or wish to review it more frequently.

**Answer "Hard"**  
When the answer screen is shown and there are four buttons, choose the
second button from the left, indicating you found the card hard to
remember.

**Answer "Good"**  
When the answer screen is shown, choose the green button. This is the
button you should end up using the most.

**Answer "Easy"**  
When the answer screen is shown, choose the button on the right,
indicating you found the card too easy to remember and would like a much
longer delay.

**Auto Advance**  
Allows you to automatically reveal the answer, and automatically rate or
bury cards. You can customize the behaviour in the preferences screen.

**Bottom Bar**  
Hides or shows the bottom bar, where the answer buttons and card counts
are shown.

**Browse**  
Opens the card browser, where you can search for and modify cards.

**Bury Card**  
Hides the current card from review. It will be shown again the next day,
or when you manually unbury cards.

**Bury Note**  
Hides the current note from review. It will be shown again the next day,
or when you manually unbury cards.

**Card Info**  
Shows information about the current card.

**Card Template**  
Allows you to edit the card template, changing which fields are shown on
the front and back of the card, and the card styling.

**Current Audio +5s**  
Jump forward 5 seconds in the currently playing audio.

**Current Audio -5s**  
Jump backward 5 seconds in the currently playing audio.

**Custom Study**  
Allows you to study outside of the normal schedule. Please see the
documentation of the computer version for more information on custom
study presets.

**Deck Statistics**  
Shows graphs and statistics about your deck or collection.

**Decks**  
Returns to the deck list.

**Delete Note**  
Deletes the currently shown note and all of its cards. If you’re not
studying in multiple directions, this will just delete a single card.

**Edit**  
Edits the current card.

**Empty**  
Removes all cards from the current filtered deck.

**Filter/Cram**  
Allows you to create a temporary deck based on search criteria such as
"tag:hard". Please see the documentation of the computer version for
more information on filtered decks.

**Flag 1 - 4**  
Sets or clears the card’s flag. Flagging cards allows you to find them
easily in the browse screen later.

**Mark**  
Adds a tag called "Marked" to the current note, so it can be easily
found in a search.

**Mark & Bury**  
Marks the card, then buries it.

**Mark & Suspend**  
Marks the card, then suspends it.

**Night Mode**  
Switch the interface between light and dark mode. On iOS 13, use the
system dark mode setting instead.

**Off**  
Don’t do anything. Useful if you want to disable certain swipes, tap
zones and so on. Not shown in the tools screen.

**Pause Audio**  
Temporarily stops or restarts the currently playing audio file.

**Rebuild**  
When in a filtered or custom study deck, rerun the search to fetch any
cards that may newly match the criteria.

**Record Voice**  
Allows you to create a temporary recording of your voice, to compare it
to audio that you have on your card.

**Replay Audio**  
Replay the card’s audio. You can customize whether the audio in the
question is replayed while the answer is shown in the computer Anki.

**Reset Card**  
Turn the current card back into a new card.

**Scratchpad**  
Show or hide the writing pad, allowing you to practice writing
characters during review. Anki will remember the on/off state for each
card type. You can tap once on the undo button to undo a stroke, or hold
on it for a second to clear all strokes. On devices that support
pressure sensitivity (iPhone 6S, iPad w/ Apple Pencil), the stroke width
will depend on how hard you press.

**Scratchpad Size**  
Alters the size of the scratchpad window.

**Set Due Date**  
Make the card a review card if it is not already one, and make it due in
the number of days you specify. If you choose 0 days, the card will be
ready to review immediately.

**Show Answer**  
Reveals the answer when a card’s question is shown.

**Study Options**  
Show the study options screen.

**Suspend Card**  
Prevent current card from being shown during review until you unsuspend
it via the search action.

**Suspend Note**  
Prevent all cards of current note from being shown during review until
you unsuspend them via the search action.

**Top bar**  
Show or hide the bar at the top of the screen.

**Tools**  
Show the tools screen.

**Unbury Deck**  
Makes any buried cards in the current deck ready for review again.

**Undo**  
Undoes the last review.

# Study Options

The study options can be accessed from the [tools](#the-tools-screen) screen.
Almost all the options available in the computer version can also be
adjusted in AnkiMobile. For a description of what everything does,
please see the [computer
documentation](https://apps.ankiweb.net/docs/manual.html#deckoptions).
While some of the options have different wording, the behaviour is the
same as the computer version.
